gitlearn/5_15.md, before:

# git 

## git commands

- git init： create a git repo at current folder
- git add: add/update a file to commit 
- git commit -m 'say something': commit a modification, git will memory all the changes you made
- git status: check the repo status, which will show all the added files and modified but not added files.
- git diff filename: check the detailed differences of filename between stage and workplace
- git reset --hard HEAD^^^^^: BACK TO THE lllllast version
  - git reset --hard b74c1: BACCK TO THE b74c1 version. b74c1 is a commit version
- git reflog: show all the modificatino log, which makes possibale back to a later version

## git structure
- git contains working dir and repo, in repo there are stage and master branch


## git远程仓库
- git remote add origin https://github.com/BarrryYoung/Note.git
- git push -u orgin master 把本地master分支内容推送到远程origin库
  - -u参数关联本地和远程的master分支，简化后续操作
- git remote -v 
- git clone git@github.com:BarrryYoung/xxx.git 在当前目录下生成一个xxx文件夹
-

Commit message:

review usages and add git fetch/pull

gitlearn/5_15.md, after:

# git 

## git commands

- git init： create a git repo at current folder
- git add: add/update a file to commit 
  - actually, there are several options for git add, the most frequently used commands are listed below:
  - git add file1 file2
  - git add .
  - git add --all (the same as up one)
  - git add folder
- git commit -m 'say something': commit a modification, git will memory all the changes you made
- git status: check the repo status, which will show all the added files and modified but not added files.
- git diff filename: check the detailed differences of filename between stage and workplace
- git reset --hard HEAD^^^^^: BACK TO THE lllllast version
  - if you don't add hard suffix, the workplace will **not** change, but the stage and the repo will roll back.
  - git reset --hard b74c1: BACCK TO THE b74c1 version. b74c1 is a commit version
- git reflog: show all the modificatino log, which makes possibale back to a later version

## git structure
- git contains working dir and repo, in repo there are stage and master branch


## git远程仓库
- git remote add origin https://github.com/BarrryYoung/Note.git
- git push -u orgin master 把本地master分支内容推送到远程origin库
  - -u参数关联本地和远程的master分支，简化后续操作
- git remote -v 
- git clone git@github.com:BarrryYoung/xxx.git 在当前目录下生成一个xxx文件夹

## git 本地同步
- git fetcch origin master: 把master分支取到本地
- git merge xx:把xx分支合并到现在的分支
- git pull origin master:master 把远程的master分支合并到本地的master分支。
- 感觉也就第三个pull比较重要
